Lab 1 Worksheet

1. What if 12 bits were used to store a signed integer. What is the biggest/smallest possible integer?

2^(n-1) - 1

-2048, 2047

2. Think about possible values and their range, say what type of variable would be suitable for the following, and suggest a name for it too. 

For example: the temperature of a room in degrees Fahrenheit. Room temperature is likely to vary between say 50 degrees F and 100 degrees F,  but it can take any value in between including non-integers, e.g 71.19 F, so the type must be float or double depending on the accuracy required. A suitable variable name would be roomTemp. 


(i) The number of pages in a book; 

Short - Maximum number in a short is 32,767; hopefully there are no books with more pages. It would not be a byte because a byte maximum value is only 127. Most books are longer. A suitable variable name would be bookPages.

(ii) The number of atoms in a book; 

Long - Maximum number in a long is 9,223,372,036,854,775,807; there should be a very large number of atoms in a book, larger than the maximum value for the int data type. A suitable variable name would be bookAtoms. 

(iii) The length of a side of a triangle in inches; 

Float/Double - The length of a side of a triangle in inches could be very large since its units is in inches. It can be represented by a non-integer number like 5.52, so the type must be a float or double, depending on the accuracy required. A suitable variable name would be sideLength.

(iv) Your name; 

Char - this is used for letters; A suitable variable name would be myName.

(v) Whether or not a nucleus has decayed; 

Boolean - whether or not a nucleus has decayed is a true or false statement. A suitable variable name would be nucleusDecayed.

(vi) The probability that it could have decayed. 

Float/Double - Probability would be between 0 and 1, including non-integers. For example, the probability could be 0.6754, depending on accuracy required, the type must be float or double. A suitable variable name would be probabilityDecayed.

3. Start to do a little java programming! 
	Follow the example of the Hello.java program and do some testing of Java int and float.
	Write a short class called “Arithmetic” that in its main method does the following:

		Creates 4 local variables
			Two ints (call them a and b)
			Two floats (call them x and y)
		Performs the following arithmetic operations on every combination of two of these 
		and output using System.out.println each of the results
			Addition
			Division (in both directions)



